## Differences between v2+ and older versions

- **Server support** - v2+ can also be used with NodeJS. Older versions are client-side only.
- **Code** - v2+ is written in ES6 and built with Babel and Webpack. Older versions were written in ES3 and built with Grunt and Browserify.
- **CommonJS** - v2+ can be "required" or "imported" as module.
- **Size** - The v2 bundle is more than 4 times smaller
- **jQuery** - v2+ does not include (nor depend on) jQuery. Older versions include jQuery, or expect to find it in the page.
- **Promises** - v2+ uses ES6 Promises (and includes polyfill for older browsers). The older versions are using promise-like `$.Deferred` objects.
- **HTTP Requests** - v2+ uses native `fetch` (and includes polyfill for older browsers). The older versions were using `$.ajax` from jQuery.
- **fhir.js** - v2+ does not include (nor depend on) [fhir.js](https://github.com/FHIR/fhir.js). Older versions include fhir.js, or expect to find it in the global scope. In v2, fhir.js can be manually or automatically linked at runtime. [Read more](./#fhirjs-integration).
- **Authorization** - v2+ Will attempt to use the [well-known-json](http://hl7.org/fhir/smart-app-launch/conformance/index.html#using-well-known) (which is faster) and will fail-back to Conformance statement. Older versions only used the conformance.
- **[authorize(options)](api#authorizeoptions-promisenever)** - Some options are changed since v2:
    - `clientId` - This was previously called `client_id` (which also works in v2+)
    - `clientSecret` - This is now accepted because it is applicable on the server side
    - `iss` - Since v2, pass `iss` option to make a Standalone Launch
    - `redirectUri` - This was previously called `redirect_uri` (which also works in v2+)
    - Other Options are available. See the [full list](api#authorizeoptions-promisenever).
- **[ready()](api#readyonsuccess--onerror-promiseclient)** - Since v2, the ready function returns a promise that you should await for. In older versions we had to pass callback arguments (which is still possible in v2+).
- **[init()](api#initoptions-promiseclient-experimental)** - v2 adds the `init` method that is designed to handle authorization on a single page.
- **[client.encounter](client#clientencounterid-stringnull)** - v2+ adds `client.encounter.id` and `client.encounter.read()` API
- **client.user** - v2+ adds [client.user.fhirUser](client#clientuserfhiruser-string) and [client.user.resourceType](client#clientuserresourcetype-string) API and changes [client.user.id](client#clientuserid-string) to return the ID of the user resource (instead of the whole "type/id" token).
- **[client.request()](client#clientrequestrequestoptions-fhiroptions-promiseobject)** - v2+ adds the `client.request()` method.
- **[client.refresh()](client#clientrefresh-promiseobject)** - v2+ adds the `client.refresh()` method. 
- **[client.getPath()](client#clientgetpathobject-path-any)** - v2+ adds the `client.getPath()` method. 
- **client.getBinary** - v2+ no longer has a `client.getBinary()` method (replaced with `client.request(...).blob()`).
- **client.fetchBinary** - v2+ no longer has a `client.fetchBinary()` method (replaced with `client.request(...).blob()`).
- **[client.byCode()](client#clientbycodeobservations-property-object)** - v2+ fixes `client.byCode()` to also work if the second argument points to an array of CodeableConcepts.
- **refresh tokens** - v2+ will renew access tokens automatically if you use the  `client.request()` method. You can also do that manually via the `client.refresh()` method.
- **fetching references** - In v2+ this can be done using request() and is controlled with options. In older versions this can only be done via `fetchAllWithReferences` from the fhir.js API (note that fetchAllWithReferences is also available in v2+ through fhir.js).
- **Testing** - v2+ has large test suite and high (> 95%) code coverage. Older versions did not have tests.
- **Debugging** - v2+ uses [debug](https://www.npmjs.com/package/debug) and comes with source maps and type definitions.
- **Documentation** - v2+ comes with detailed documentation and live examples.
- **Configurable browser support** - By default v2 supports IE 10+. However, those who target different environments can change the `broserlist` configuration in package.json and rebuild. This can result in skipping some polyfills and  reducing the bundle size.
